README.md, before:

<img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/iCHAIT/awesome-osx/master/media/awesome.svg" width="400">

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

> A curated list of awesome applications, softwares, tools and shiny things for OS X.

> *Items marked with ![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon] are open-source software and link to the source code.*

## Table of Contents

- [Applications](#applications)
    - [Audio](#audio)
    - [Chat Clients](#chat-clients)
    - [Data Recovery](#data-recovery)
    - [Developers](#developers)
    - [E-Book Utilities](#e-book-utilities)
    - [Editors](#editors)
    - [Email Utilities](#email-utilities)
    - [Finder](#finder)
    - [Games](#games)
    - [Graphics](#graphics)
    - [Productivity](#productivity)
    - [Sharing Files](#sharing-files)
    - [Terminal](#terminal)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)
    - [Video](#video)
    - [Others](#others)
- [OS X Utilities](#os-x-utilities)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Security](#security)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
- [Discussion Forums](#discussion-forums)
- [Contribute](#contribute)


## Applications

### Audio

- [Audacity](http://audacityteam.org/) - Free, open source, cross-platform software for recording and editing sounds. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/audacity/audacity)
- [XLD](http://tmkk.undo.jp/xld/index_e.html) - Rip/Decode/convert/play various "lossless" audio files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://code.google.com/p/xld/source/checkout)


### Chat Clients

- [ChitChat](https://github.com/stonesam92/ChitChat) - A native Mac app wrapper for WhatsApp Web. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/stonesam92/ChitChat)
- [LimeChat](http://limechat.net/mac/) - Instant messaging application. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/psychs/limechat)
- [Messenger for Desktop](http://messengerfordesktop.com/) - An app for Facebook messenger. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Aluxian/Facebook-Messenger-Desktop)
- [Profanity](http://www.profanity.im) - A terminal XMPP client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/boothj5/profanity)
- [Textual 5](https://www.codeux.com/textual/) - An Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Codeux-Software/Textual)
- [WeeChat](https://weechat.org) - A terminal IRC client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/weechat/weechat)


### Data Recovery

- [Data Rescue](https://www.prosofteng.com/datarescue4/) - Comprehensive and professional data recovery for a multitude of scenarios.
- [DiskWarrior](http://www.alsoft.com/DiskWarrior/) - Recover from filesystem corruptions when Disk Utility is out of options.


### Developers

- [Base 2](http://menial.co.uk/base/) - A GUI for managing SQLite databases.
- [Cakebrew](https://github.com/brunophilipe/Cakebrew) - The Homebrew GUI App. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/brunophilipe/Cakebrew)
- [Charles](http://www.charlesproxy.com) - Charles is a Proxy that allow you to view all of the HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
- [Dash](https://kapeli.com/dash) - An API Documentation Browser and Code Snippet Manager.
- [GitHub Desktop](https://mac.github.com/) - A GUI for using GitHub.
- [GitUp](http://gitup.co/) - A simple but powerful Git OS X app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/git-up/GitUp)
- [Hosts](http://www.macupdate.com/app/mac/40003/hosts) - Edit hosts file.
- [ImageAlpha](http://pngmini.com/) - Apply lossy compression on PNG files with or without transparency for more efficient files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pornel/ImageAlpha)
- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/) - Makes images take up less disk space and load faster. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pornel/ImageOptim)
- [Integrity](http://peacockmedia.software/mac/integrity/free.html) - Easily find your website's broken links.
- [Paw](https://luckymarmot.com/paw) - The ultimate REST client.
- [Insomnia](http://insomnia.rest) - A modern REST client with an beautiful interface. 
- [PSequel](http://www.psequel.com/) - A PostgreSQL GUI tool.
- [Sequel Pro](http://www.sequelpro.com/) - A MySQL database manager. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/sequelpro/sequelpro)
- [Sip](http://theolabrothers.com/) - A simple color picker for developers.
- [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/) - A free Git & Mercurial client.
- [StarUML](http://staruml.io) - A sophisticated software modeler.
- [Tower](http://www.git-tower.com/) - The most powerful Git client.
- [Unused](https://jeffhodnett.github.io/Unused/) - An app for checking Xcode projects for unused resources. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/jeffhodnett/Unused)
- [WWDC](https://github.com/insidegui/WWDC) - The WWDC app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/insidegui/WWDC)
- [Zsh](http://www.zsh.org/) -  A powerful command line shell. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/p/zsh/code/ci/master/tree/)


### E-Book Utilities

- [Calibre](http://calibre-ebook.com/) - Incredibly ugly but powerful software for ebook management and conversion. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/calibre)
- [Kitabu](https://www.kitabu.me/) - Desktop ePub ebook reader.


### Editors

- [Atom](https://atom.io/) - The hackable text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/atom/atom)
- [Brackets](http://brackets.io/) - A modern text editor that understands web design. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/adobe/brackets)
- [Emacs](https://github.com/railwaycat/mirror-emacs-mac) - Port of Emacs to work as an OS X app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/railwaycat/mirror-emacs-mac)
- [Light Table](http://lighttable.com/) - A customizable editor with REPL support for Clojure, JavaScript, Python and others. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/LightTable/LightTable)
- [MacVim](https://github.com/b4winckler/macvim) - Vim, the text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/b4winckler/macvim)
- [Sublime Text 3](http://www.sublimetext.com/) - The sophisticated text editor.
- [TextMate](https://macromates.com/) - A graphical text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/textmate/textmate)
- [VimR](http://vimr.org) - Vim, refined. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/qvacua/vimr)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Build and debug modern web and cloud applications.


### Email Utilities

- [MailMate](http://freron.com/) - Advanced IMAP email client, featuring extensive keyboard control and Markdown support.


### Finder

- [ForkLift](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/forklift-file-manager-ftp/id412448059) - File Manager and FTP/SFTP/WebDAV/Amazon S3 client.
- [Path Finder](http://www.cocoatech.com/pathfinder/) - A powerful dual-pane browser alternative to Finder.
- [TotalFinder](http://totalfinder.binaryage.com/) - A powerful alternative to Finder.
- [XtraFinder](https://www.trankynam.com/xtrafinder/) - Adds useful features to Finder.


### Games
- [OpenEmu](http://openemu.org/) - Multiple Video Game System. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/OpenEmu/OpenEmu)
- [Screentendo](http://aaronrandall.com/blog/screentendo/) - Turn your screen into a playable level of Mario. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/AaronRandall/Screentendo)
- [Stockfish](http://stockfishchess.org/mac/) - Beautiful, powerful chess application. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/daylen/stockfish-mac)


### Graphics

- [Acorn](https://secure.flyingmeat.com/acorn/) - A very Mac-like image editor with a comprehensive feature set.
- [OmniGraffle](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnigraffle) - An app for creating precise, beautiful graphics.
- [Pixelmator](http://www.pixelmator.com/) - Powerful image editor, possible Photoshop alternative.
- [Sketch](http://bohemiancoding.com/sketch/) - Hybrid vector/bitmap layout application, especially useful for UI, web and mobile design.
- [xScope](http://xscopeapp.com/) - Tools for measuring, inspecting and testing on-screen graphics and layouts.


### Productivity

- [Alfred](http://www.alfredapp.com/) - Boosts your efficiency and productivity.
- [Amethyst](http://ianyh.com/amethyst/) - Window manager (automatically keep windows sized in grids). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ianyh/Amethyst)
- [BetterTouchTool](http://www.bettertouchtool.net/) - Configure gestures for mouse and actions for keyboard shortcuts.
- [ClipMenu](http://www.clipmenu.com/) - ClipBoard History Manager.
- [CloudClip](http://www.thinkbitz.com/cloudclip/) - Sync your clipboard between your Mac and your iOS devices.
- [Divvy Window Manager](http://mizage.com/divvy/) - Window management for tiling your windows.
- [f.lux](http://stereopsis.com/flux/) - Automatically adjust your computer screen to match lighting.
- [HyperDock](https://bahoom.com/hyperdock/) - Select individual application window.
- [Karabiner](https://pqrs.org/osx/karabiner/) - A powerful keyboard customizer. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tekezo/Karabiner)
- [LaunchBar](https://www.obdev.at/products/launchbar/) - Start applications, navigate folders, manipulate files, control your Mac and much more just by using the keyboard.
- [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) - An incredible task management platform for Mac, iPad, and iPhone.
- [PopClip](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/) - Instantly copy & paste, access actions like search, spelling, dictionary and more.
- [Quicksilver](http://qsapp.com/) - Control your Mac quickly and elegantly. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver)
- [Spectacle](http://spectacleapp.com/) - Easily organize windows without using a mouse. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/eczarny/spectacle)
- [TextExpander](https://smilesoftware.com/TextExpander/index.html) - Create custom keyboard shortcuts for frequently-used text and pictures.
- [Zooom/2](http://coderage-software.com/zooom/index_green/index.html) - Mac window management.


### Sharing Files

- [BitTorrent Sync](https://www.getsync.com/) - Multi platform sync tool using BitTorrent protocol.
- [CloudApp](https://www.getcloudapp.com/) - Capture and share files and screenshots instantly.
- [mac2imgur](https://github.com/mileswd/mac2imgur) - Upload images and screenshots to Imgur. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mileswd/mac2imgur)


### Terminal

- [iTerm 2](https://www.iterm2.com/) - A terminal emulator. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/gnachman/iTerm2)
- [TotalTerminal](http://totalterminal.binaryage.com/) - A system-wide terminal available on a hot-key.

### Utilities

- [1Password](https://itunes.apple.com/in/app/1password-password-manager/id443987910?mt=12) - Password Manager and Secure Wallet.
- [Amphetamine](https://itunes.apple.com/app/amphetamine/id937984704) - Prevents OS X from automatically going to sleep, with lots of configurations.
- [AnyBar](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar) - A menubar status indicator. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar)
- [AppCleaner](http://www.freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/) - Uninstall your apps easily.
- [Bartender](http://www.macbartender.com/) - Organize your menu bar apps.
- [BetterZip](http://macitbetter.com/) - A very capable and full-featured archive manager.
- [ControlPlane](http://www.controlplaneapp.com/) - Automate running tasks based on where you are or what you do. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/dustinrue/ControlPlane)
- [DaisyDisk](http://www.daisydiskapp.com/) - Analyze disk usage and free up disk space.
- [EtreCheck](http://www.etresoft.com/etrecheck) - Output system information and configuration to get more informed help from Apple support professionals. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/etresoft/EtreCheck)
- [Finicky](https://johnste.github.io/finicky/) - App that allows you to set rules that decide which browser is opened for every link. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/johnste/finicky)
- [Fluid](http://fluidapp.com/) - Turn web applications into Mac applications.
- [Helium](http://heliumfloats.com/) - A floating browser window that allows you to watch media while you work. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/JadenGeller/Helium)
- [InsomniaX](http://semaja2.net/projects/insomniaxinfo/) - Prevents OS X from automatically going to sleep (on lid closing or idle timeout).
- [iStat Menus](https://bjango.com/mac/istatmenus/) - An advanced system monitor for your menubar.
- [Kawa](https://github.com/noraesae/kawa) - A better input source switcher with shortcuts. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/noraesae/kawa)
- [Keka](http://www.kekaosx.com/en/) - Compress to and extract from many archive file formats. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/projects/keka/files/)
- [MacDown](http://macdown.uranusjr.com/) - Markdown editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/uranusjr/macdown)
- [Mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup) - Keep your application settings in sync. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/lra/mackup)
- [Media Converter](http://media-converter.sourceforge.net/) - Simple (drag and drop) but advanced media conversion. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/p/media-converter/code/HEAD/tree/)
- [Monodraw](http://monodraw.helftone.com/) - A powerful ASCII art editor.
- [Notational Velocity](http://notational.net/) - Store, retrieve and sync notes within a minimal GUI. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/scrod/nv/)
- [Numi](http://numi.io/) - Beautiful calculator app.
- [Site Sucker](http://ricks-apps.com/osx/sitesucker/) - Automatically download websites from the Internet.
- [ShiftIt](https://github.com/fikovnik/ShiftIt) - Managing windows size and position. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/fikovnik/ShiftIt)
- [Subtitles](http://subtitlesapp.com/) - Automatically downloads subtitles for your movies and TV shows.
- [TeamViewer](http://www.teamviewer.com/en/index.aspx) - Remotely control another computer.
- [TextBar](http://www.richsomerfield.com/apps/) - TextBar is a tiny but powerful app that lets you add any text to your MenuBar.
- [Übersicht](http://tracesof.net/uebersicht/) - Run system commands and display their output on your desktop as widgets. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/felixhageloh/uebersicht)
- [The Unarchiver](http://unarchiver.c3.cx/unarchiver) - Unarchive many different kinds of archive files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://bitbucket.org/WAHa_06x36/theunarchiver)


### Video

- [HandBrake](http://handbrake.fr/) - High performance video encoding and conversion tools with a nice GUI. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake)
- [mpv](http://mpv.io/) - Media player. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv)
- [ScreenFlow](http://www.telestream.net/screenflow/) - Screencasting and video editing software.
- [Subler](https://bitbucket.org/galad87/subler/wiki/Home) - Mux and tag MP4 files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://bitbucket.org/galad87/subler/wiki/Home)


### Others

- [Catch](http://www.giorgiocalderolla.com/index.html#catch) - The easiest way to use ShowRSS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mipstian/catch/)
- [gInbox](https://github.com/chenasraf/gInbox) - gInbox is a wrapper made for Mac around Inbox by Gmail. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/chenasraf/gInbox)
- [Hacky](http://www.hackyapp.com/) - Hacky provides browsing Hacker News in a clean and minimalistic way. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/eliaskg/Hacky)
- [Sonora](http://getsonora.com/) -  A minimal, beautifully designed music player. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/sonoramac/Sonora)
- [SoundCleod](http://soundcleod.com/) - A browser for SoundCloud. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/salomvary/soundcleod)
- [Transmit](https://panic.com/transmit/) - A FTP client.
- [Vienna](http://www.vienna-rss.org/) - RSS/Atom newsreader. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ViennaRSS/vienna-rss)


## OS X Utilities

- [Command Line Utilities Part 1](http://www.mitchchn.me/2014/os-x-terminal/?x)
- [Command Line Utilities Part 2](http://www.mitchchn.me/2014/and-eight-hundred-more/)
- [Glances](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances) - System monitoring tool that runs in terminal. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances)
- [Thread on StackExchange](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/12161/os-x-terminal-must-have-utilities)


## Setup

### OS X 10.9 Mavericks Setup

* https://gist.github.com/kevinelliott/3135044
* https://gist.github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/350f4898d1b82cf10bce

### OS X 10.10 Yosemite Setup

* https://gist.github.com/kevinelliott/0726211d17020a6abc1f


## Security

* [GPG Suite](https://gpgtools.org/) - Full GPG toolkit with easy to understand GUI applications and Mail.app plugin.
* [MIDAS](https://github.com/etsy/MIDAS) - Intrusion Detection Analysis System. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/etsy/MIDAS)
* [OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide](https://github.com/drduh/OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide) [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/drduh/OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide)
* [OSXAuditor](https://github.com/jipegit/OSXAuditor) - A free computer forensics tool. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/jipegit/OSXAuditor)
* [santa](https://github.com/google/santa) - A binary whitelisting/blacklisting system. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/google/santa)
* [Viscosity](https://www.sparklabs.com/viscosity/) - Fully-featured OpenVPN client, ready for enterprise deployment.


## Miscellaneous

* [Trackpad Gestures](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204895)
* [Power Tools](http://www.slant.co/topics/523/~what-are-the-best-power-user-tools-for-mac-osx)
* [Show hidden files](http://ianlunn.co.uk/articles/quickly-showhide-hidden-files-mac-os-x-mavericks/)
* [Mac Power Users](http://5by5.tv/mpu/238)


## Discussion Forums

#### Apple

* [Apple Support Communities](https://discussions.apple.com/community/mac_os/os_x_yosemite)


#### IRC channels

* [#macosx](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=macosx)
* [#apple](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=apple)
* [#mac](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=mac)


#### MacRumors

* [OS X Yosemite](http://forums.macrumors.com/forums/os-x-yosemite-10-10.171/)


#### Reddit

* [/r/osx](https://www.reddit.com/r/osx/)
* [/r/macapps](https://www.reddit.com/r/macapps)
* [/r/mac](https://www.reddit.com/r/Mac)
* [/r/macsetups](https://www.reddit.com/r/MacSetups)


## Contribute

Contributions are most welcome, please adhere to the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md).

**[⬆ back to top](#table-of-contents)**


## License

[![Creative Commons License](http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

[OSS Icon]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/iCHAIT/awesome-osx/master/media/oss.svg

Commit message:

Add Avocode mac app (avocode.com)

README.md, after:

<img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/iCHAIT/awesome-osx/master/media/awesome.svg" width="400">

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

> A curated list of awesome applications, softwares, tools and shiny things for OS X.

> *Items marked with ![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon] are open-source software and link to the source code.*

## Table of Contents

- [Applications](#applications)
    - [Audio](#audio)
    - [Chat Clients](#chat-clients)
    - [Data Recovery](#data-recovery)
    - [Developers](#developers)
    - [E-Book Utilities](#e-book-utilities)
    - [Editors](#editors)
    - [Email Utilities](#email-utilities)
    - [Finder](#finder)
    - [Games](#games)
    - [Graphics](#graphics)
    - [Productivity](#productivity)
    - [Sharing Files](#sharing-files)
    - [Terminal](#terminal)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)
    - [Video](#video)
    - [Others](#others)
- [OS X Utilities](#os-x-utilities)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Security](#security)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
- [Discussion Forums](#discussion-forums)
- [Contribute](#contribute)


## Applications

### Audio

- [Audacity](http://audacityteam.org/) - Free, open source, cross-platform software for recording and editing sounds. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/audacity/audacity)
- [XLD](http://tmkk.undo.jp/xld/index_e.html) - Rip/Decode/convert/play various "lossless" audio files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://code.google.com/p/xld/source/checkout)


### Chat Clients

- [ChitChat](https://github.com/stonesam92/ChitChat) - A native Mac app wrapper for WhatsApp Web. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/stonesam92/ChitChat)
- [LimeChat](http://limechat.net/mac/) - Instant messaging application. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/psychs/limechat)
- [Messenger for Desktop](http://messengerfordesktop.com/) - An app for Facebook messenger. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Aluxian/Facebook-Messenger-Desktop)
- [Profanity](http://www.profanity.im) - A terminal XMPP client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/boothj5/profanity)
- [Textual 5](https://www.codeux.com/textual/) - An Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Codeux-Software/Textual)
- [WeeChat](https://weechat.org) - A terminal IRC client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/weechat/weechat)


### Data Recovery

- [Data Rescue](https://www.prosofteng.com/datarescue4/) - Comprehensive and professional data recovery for a multitude of scenarios.
- [DiskWarrior](http://www.alsoft.com/DiskWarrior/) - Recover from filesystem corruptions when Disk Utility is out of options.


### Developers

- [Base 2](http://menial.co.uk/base/) - A GUI for managing SQLite databases.
- [Cakebrew](https://github.com/brunophilipe/Cakebrew) - The Homebrew GUI App. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/brunophilipe/Cakebrew)
- [Charles](http://www.charlesproxy.com) - Charles is a Proxy that allow you to view all of the HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
- [Dash](https://kapeli.com/dash) - An API Documentation Browser and Code Snippet Manager.
- [GitHub Desktop](https://mac.github.com/) - A GUI for using GitHub.
- [GitUp](http://gitup.co/) - A simple but powerful Git OS X app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/git-up/GitUp)
- [Hosts](http://www.macupdate.com/app/mac/40003/hosts) - Edit hosts file.
- [ImageAlpha](http://pngmini.com/) - Apply lossy compression on PNG files with or without transparency for more efficient files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pornel/ImageAlpha)
- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/) - Makes images take up less disk space and load faster. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pornel/ImageOptim)
- [Integrity](http://peacockmedia.software/mac/integrity/free.html) - Easily find your website's broken links.
- [Paw](https://luckymarmot.com/paw) - The ultimate REST client.
- [Insomnia](http://insomnia.rest) - A modern REST client with an beautiful interface. 
- [PSequel](http://www.psequel.com/) - A PostgreSQL GUI tool.
- [Sequel Pro](http://www.sequelpro.com/) - A MySQL database manager. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/sequelpro/sequelpro)
- [Sip](http://theolabrothers.com/) - A simple color picker for developers.
- [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/) - A free Git & Mercurial client.
- [StarUML](http://staruml.io) - A sophisticated software modeler.
- [Tower](http://www.git-tower.com/) - The most powerful Git client.
- [Unused](https://jeffhodnett.github.io/Unused/) - An app for checking Xcode projects for unused resources. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/jeffhodnett/Unused)
- [WWDC](https://github.com/insidegui/WWDC) - The WWDC app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/insidegui/WWDC)
- [Zsh](http://www.zsh.org/) -  A powerful command line shell. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/p/zsh/code/ci/master/tree/)


### E-Book Utilities

- [Calibre](http://calibre-ebook.com/) - Incredibly ugly but powerful software for ebook management and conversion. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/calibre)
- [Kitabu](https://www.kitabu.me/) - Desktop ePub ebook reader.


### Editors

- [Atom](https://atom.io/) - The hackable text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/atom/atom)
- [Brackets](http://brackets.io/) - A modern text editor that understands web design. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/adobe/brackets)
- [Emacs](https://github.com/railwaycat/mirror-emacs-mac) - Port of Emacs to work as an OS X app. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/railwaycat/mirror-emacs-mac)
- [Light Table](http://lighttable.com/) - A customizable editor with REPL support for Clojure, JavaScript, Python and others. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/LightTable/LightTable)
- [MacVim](https://github.com/b4winckler/macvim) - Vim, the text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/b4winckler/macvim)
- [Sublime Text 3](http://www.sublimetext.com/) - The sophisticated text editor.
- [TextMate](https://macromates.com/) - A graphical text editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/textmate/textmate)
- [VimR](http://vimr.org) - Vim, refined. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/qvacua/vimr)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Build and debug modern web and cloud applications.


### Email Utilities

- [MailMate](http://freron.com/) - Advanced IMAP email client, featuring extensive keyboard control and Markdown support.


### Finder

- [ForkLift](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/forklift-file-manager-ftp/id412448059) - File Manager and FTP/SFTP/WebDAV/Amazon S3 client.
- [Path Finder](http://www.cocoatech.com/pathfinder/) - A powerful dual-pane browser alternative to Finder.
- [TotalFinder](http://totalfinder.binaryage.com/) - A powerful alternative to Finder.
- [XtraFinder](https://www.trankynam.com/xtrafinder/) - Adds useful features to Finder.


### Games
- [OpenEmu](http://openemu.org/) - Multiple Video Game System. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/OpenEmu/OpenEmu)
- [Screentendo](http://aaronrandall.com/blog/screentendo/) - Turn your screen into a playable level of Mario. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/AaronRandall/Screentendo)
- [Stockfish](http://stockfishchess.org/mac/) - Beautiful, powerful chess application. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/daylen/stockfish-mac)


### Graphics

- [Acorn](https://secure.flyingmeat.com/acorn/) - A very Mac-like image editor with a comprehensive feature set.
- [Avocode](http://avocode.com/) - Avocode is a program built for the process of going from PSD (or Sketch) to code.
- [OmniGraffle](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnigraffle) - An app for creating precise, beautiful graphics.
- [Pixelmator](http://www.pixelmator.com/) - Powerful image editor, possible Photoshop alternative.
- [Sketch](http://bohemiancoding.com/sketch/) - Hybrid vector/bitmap layout application, especially useful for UI, web and mobile design.
- [xScope](http://xscopeapp.com/) - Tools for measuring, inspecting and testing on-screen graphics and layouts.


### Productivity

- [Alfred](http://www.alfredapp.com/) - Boosts your efficiency and productivity.
- [Amethyst](http://ianyh.com/amethyst/) - Window manager (automatically keep windows sized in grids). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ianyh/Amethyst)
- [BetterTouchTool](http://www.bettertouchtool.net/) - Configure gestures for mouse and actions for keyboard shortcuts.
- [ClipMenu](http://www.clipmenu.com/) - ClipBoard History Manager.
- [CloudClip](http://www.thinkbitz.com/cloudclip/) - Sync your clipboard between your Mac and your iOS devices.
- [Divvy Window Manager](http://mizage.com/divvy/) - Window management for tiling your windows.
- [f.lux](http://stereopsis.com/flux/) - Automatically adjust your computer screen to match lighting.
- [HyperDock](https://bahoom.com/hyperdock/) - Select individual application window.
- [Karabiner](https://pqrs.org/osx/karabiner/) - A powerful keyboard customizer. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tekezo/Karabiner)
- [LaunchBar](https://www.obdev.at/products/launchbar/) - Start applications, navigate folders, manipulate files, control your Mac and much more just by using the keyboard.
- [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) - An incredible task management platform for Mac, iPad, and iPhone.
- [PopClip](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/) - Instantly copy & paste, access actions like search, spelling, dictionary and more.
- [Quicksilver](http://qsapp.com/) - Control your Mac quickly and elegantly. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver)
- [Spectacle](http://spectacleapp.com/) - Easily organize windows without using a mouse. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/eczarny/spectacle)
- [TextExpander](https://smilesoftware.com/TextExpander/index.html) - Create custom keyboard shortcuts for frequently-used text and pictures.
- [Zooom/2](http://coderage-software.com/zooom/index_green/index.html) - Mac window management.


### Sharing Files

- [BitTorrent Sync](https://www.getsync.com/) - Multi platform sync tool using BitTorrent protocol.
- [CloudApp](https://www.getcloudapp.com/) - Capture and share files and screenshots instantly.
- [mac2imgur](https://github.com/mileswd/mac2imgur) - Upload images and screenshots to Imgur. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mileswd/mac2imgur)


### Terminal

- [iTerm 2](https://www.iterm2.com/) - A terminal emulator. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/gnachman/iTerm2)
- [TotalTerminal](http://totalterminal.binaryage.com/) - A system-wide terminal available on a hot-key.

### Utilities

- [1Password](https://itunes.apple.com/in/app/1password-password-manager/id443987910?mt=12) - Password Manager and Secure Wallet.
- [Amphetamine](https://itunes.apple.com/app/amphetamine/id937984704) - Prevents OS X from automatically going to sleep, with lots of configurations.
- [AnyBar](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar) - A menubar status indicator. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tonsky/AnyBar)
- [AppCleaner](http://www.freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/) - Uninstall your apps easily.
- [Bartender](http://www.macbartender.com/) - Organize your menu bar apps.
- [BetterZip](http://macitbetter.com/) - A very capable and full-featured archive manager.
- [ControlPlane](http://www.controlplaneapp.com/) - Automate running tasks based on where you are or what you do. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/dustinrue/ControlPlane)
- [DaisyDisk](http://www.daisydiskapp.com/) - Analyze disk usage and free up disk space.
- [EtreCheck](http://www.etresoft.com/etrecheck) - Output system information and configuration to get more informed help from Apple support professionals. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/etresoft/EtreCheck)
- [Finicky](https://johnste.github.io/finicky/) - App that allows you to set rules that decide which browser is opened for every link. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/johnste/finicky)
- [Fluid](http://fluidapp.com/) - Turn web applications into Mac applications.
- [Helium](http://heliumfloats.com/) - A floating browser window that allows you to watch media while you work. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/JadenGeller/Helium)
- [InsomniaX](http://semaja2.net/projects/insomniaxinfo/) - Prevents OS X from automatically going to sleep (on lid closing or idle timeout).
- [iStat Menus](https://bjango.com/mac/istatmenus/) - An advanced system monitor for your menubar.
- [Kawa](https://github.com/noraesae/kawa) - A better input source switcher with shortcuts. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/noraesae/kawa)
- [Keka](http://www.kekaosx.com/en/) - Compress to and extract from many archive file formats. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/projects/keka/files/)
- [MacDown](http://macdown.uranusjr.com/) - Markdown editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/uranusjr/macdown)
- [Mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup) - Keep your application settings in sync. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/lra/mackup)
- [Media Converter](http://media-converter.sourceforge.net/) - Simple (drag and drop) but advanced media conversion. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](http://sourceforge.net/p/media-converter/code/HEAD/tree/)
- [Monodraw](http://monodraw.helftone.com/) - A powerful ASCII art editor.
- [Notational Velocity](http://notational.net/) - Store, retrieve and sync notes within a minimal GUI. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/scrod/nv/)
- [Numi](http://numi.io/) - Beautiful calculator app.
- [Site Sucker](http://ricks-apps.com/osx/sitesucker/) - Automatically download websites from the Internet.
- [ShiftIt](https://github.com/fikovnik/ShiftIt) - Managing windows size and position. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/fikovnik/ShiftIt)
- [Subtitles](http://subtitlesapp.com/) - Automatically downloads subtitles for your movies and TV shows.
- [TeamViewer](http://www.teamviewer.com/en/index.aspx) - Remotely control another computer.
- [TextBar](http://www.richsomerfield.com/apps/) - TextBar is a tiny but powerful app that lets you add any text to your MenuBar.
- [Übersicht](http://tracesof.net/uebersicht/) - Run system commands and display their output on your desktop as widgets. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/felixhageloh/uebersicht)
- [The Unarchiver](http://unarchiver.c3.cx/unarchiver) - Unarchive many different kinds of archive files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://bitbucket.org/WAHa_06x36/theunarchiver)


### Video

- [HandBrake](http://handbrake.fr/) - High performance video encoding and conversion tools with a nice GUI. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake)
- [mpv](http://mpv.io/) - Media player. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv)
- [ScreenFlow](http://www.telestream.net/screenflow/) - Screencasting and video editing software.
- [Subler](https://bitbucket.org/galad87/subler/wiki/Home) - Mux and tag MP4 files. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://bitbucket.org/galad87/subler/wiki/Home)


### Others

- [Catch](http://www.giorgiocalderolla.com/index.html#catch) - The easiest way to use ShowRSS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mipstian/catch/)
- [gInbox](https://github.com/chenasraf/gInbox) - gInbox is a wrapper made for Mac around Inbox by Gmail. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/chenasraf/gInbox)
- [Hacky](http://www.hackyapp.com/) - Hacky provides browsing Hacker News in a clean and minimalistic way. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/eliaskg/Hacky)
- [Sonora](http://getsonora.com/) -  A minimal, beautifully designed music player. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/sonoramac/Sonora)
- [SoundCleod](http://soundcleod.com/) - A browser for SoundCloud. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/salomvary/soundcleod)
- [Transmit](https://panic.com/transmit/) - A FTP client.
- [Vienna](http://www.vienna-rss.org/) - RSS/Atom newsreader. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ViennaRSS/vienna-rss)


## OS X Utilities

- [Command Line Utilities Part 1](http://www.mitchchn.me/2014/os-x-terminal/?x)
- [Command Line Utilities Part 2](http://www.mitchchn.me/2014/and-eight-hundred-more/)
- [Glances](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances) - System monitoring tool that runs in terminal. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances)
- [Thread on StackExchange](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/12161/os-x-terminal-must-have-utilities)


## Setup

### OS X 10.9 Mavericks Setup

* https://gist.github.com/kevinelliott/3135044
* https://gist.github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/350f4898d1b82cf10bce

### OS X 10.10 Yosemite Setup

* https://gist.github.com/kevinelliott/0726211d17020a6abc1f


## Security

* [GPG Suite](https://gpgtools.org/) - Full GPG toolkit with easy to understand GUI applications and Mail.app plugin.
* [MIDAS](https://github.com/etsy/MIDAS) - Intrusion Detection Analysis System. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/etsy/MIDAS)
* [OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide](https://github.com/drduh/OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide) [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/drduh/OS-X-Yosemite-Security-and-Privacy-Guide)
* [OSXAuditor](https://github.com/jipegit/OSXAuditor) - A free computer forensics tool. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/jipegit/OSXAuditor)
* [santa](https://github.com/google/santa) - A binary whitelisting/blacklisting system. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/google/santa)
* [Viscosity](https://www.sparklabs.com/viscosity/) - Fully-featured OpenVPN client, ready for enterprise deployment.


## Miscellaneous

* [Trackpad Gestures](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204895)
* [Power Tools](http://www.slant.co/topics/523/~what-are-the-best-power-user-tools-for-mac-osx)
* [Show hidden files](http://ianlunn.co.uk/articles/quickly-showhide-hidden-files-mac-os-x-mavericks/)
* [Mac Power Users](http://5by5.tv/mpu/238)


## Discussion Forums

#### Apple

* [Apple Support Communities](https://discussions.apple.com/community/mac_os/os_x_yosemite)


#### IRC channels

* [#macosx](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=macosx)
* [#apple](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=apple)
* [#mac](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=mac)


#### MacRumors

* [OS X Yosemite](http://forums.macrumors.com/forums/os-x-yosemite-10-10.171/)


#### Reddit

* [/r/osx](https://www.reddit.com/r/osx/)
* [/r/macapps](https://www.reddit.com/r/macapps)
* [/r/mac](https://www.reddit.com/r/Mac)
* [/r/macsetups](https://www.reddit.com/r/MacSetups)


## Contribute

Contributions are most welcome, please adhere to the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md).

**[⬆ back to top](#table-of-contents)**


## License

[![Creative Commons License](http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

[OSS Icon]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/iCHAIT/awesome-osx/master/media/oss.svg
